so once i've got the cutting board set up secured
firmly, what I'm going to do is then just bring
out 3 of the most important knives that you're
going to use in your classes at school and also in
the industry also and in meat cutting what I want
to do first is actually sanitize those as well so
the first piece of equipment I'm sanitizing
here is my honing steel so that's something
i'm going to use just to make sure that
i'm keeping an edge on my knives at all times
next one is what we refer to
as the classical french knife
okay for me personally I like it it's a 10
inch or 12 inch blade but it's got a little
bit of a hilt there so if I am chopping I can
apply pressure from the heel of that knife
it's very secure and safe so again what i
want to do just sanitize that a little bit
with the sanitizer spray and again making sure
that everything is clean tidy before I process
and then the final knife will be my boning knife
so there's many different types of
boning knives this is the one that I prefer
the majority of the knife cuts that I'm going
to do and this is sort of a stiff bladed one you
can get something a little bit more flexible this
one is a bit more of a stiff bladed knife this is
what the setup should look like I'm right-handed
so my steel is always to my left so I can pick
that up and just start sharpening my knives and
i always have my french knife and my bone knife
to my right hand side with the blades facing away
what I don't want is the blade facing towards me
i can have an accident if I go to reach for that
knife in that way and also it's quite awkward to
sort of pick the knife up there that way for speed
so when I'm doing anything I want to be able to
pick up this knife I can put it back down if i'm
butchering then I can put it back down that way too